Introduction to Software Programming – WS 2018/19
==============
***Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster***, ***Institute of Transportation Systems, Deutsches Zentrum für Luft- und Raumfahrt (DLR),Braunschweig***

**Author:** *Rubankumar Moorthy*

*MSc.Geoinformatics*

Abstract:
The final java programming project focuses on creating the Shape objects and visualization fulfilled in the graphic panel provided by Marcelo for the labs. In the implementation part, the Europe capital city's information was collected from Wikipedia, the European Union, the City population and other open service portals. The ten capital cities and details are stored in order of name of the city, GPS coordinates (in decimal degrees), area (in sq. km), population, population density (number per sq. km), percentage of foreign residents in the population, GDP (in billion €). City geographical information has been plotted and visualized in the graphical panel. This course has introduced me to the basics of software programming with an emphasis on common data structures and algorithms often required in geospatial applications. In addition, the course covered the basics of programming using Java relevant to Geoinformatics. In this course, I learned basic java programming based on previous assignments and the above tasks. The four tasks were useful for understanding the shape of objects and the virtual system, which is related to geoinformation science. However, the cities have plotted with labels and buffer by satisfying all the conditions for the tasks. Moreover, calculating normalization for the color values of the circles, Rectangles for demographic data which much helpful for interpretation. Visual interpretation of city information in a virtual system easily obtains knowledge through the map, which greatly benefits the users.  